these now are the main areas of fighting
in Northern Gaza the shaded areas are
where Israeli soldiers and tanks have
made advances in circling Gaza City and
effectively cutting the strip in half
Israeli troops and tanks have completely
surrounded the port of Gaza it's believe
that the armed wing of Hamas the kasan
brigades is fighting on what's being
described as four decisive fronts in
talawa Al shatti bit Laha and bate hanon
let's speak to Andreas Craig about this
he's a senior lecture in security
studies at Kings College London joining
us from London thank you Andreas for
being with us okay let's begin with the
situation at alifa first and this claim
by the Israelis and the Americans that
alifa is the command center for Hamas is
there any tangible evidence of
that well that's the problem I me we're
looking at an ongoing operation nothing
that has been presented by either side
as evidence is very tangible or
conclusive uh and things uh obviously
shift uh around quite quickly what has
to to be said though is that The
Narrative of alifa hospital being
somewhat the kwat center of Hamas has
been going around for a decade so
Israelis have always pushed that
narrative it's now time of Truth where
they have boots on the ground where they
now have to come up with evidence that
this is actually true so far they
haven't presented any evidence and the
evidence that the IDF has presented over
the last couple of days around different
hospitals in Gaza have always always not
just been inconclusive but to a great
deal have also been inconsistent and
showed a lot of flaws and misinformation
in it which also makes it very difficult
to really trust their word for it and
from an intelligence point of view as
well I would say that the Americans are
just copying what the Israelis are
saying instead of actually presenting
their own evidence so there isn't a lot
out there right even even if they came
up with evidence Andreas evidence like
let's say a bunker in alifa hospital
what would it
prove it it doesn't prove anything uh
per se and what we've seen I think the
IDF said this morning in in in Hebrew in
in on the radio that that they have not
found any evidence for any hostages
being there or having been there so that
as well also disproves some of the the
claims that they've made what is
interesting is though that there have
been stories around um uh shifa hospital
already for a while where people said
that there is a bunker system underneath
the hospital not connected to the
hospital that was actually built by the
Israelis and that's what makes the
Israelis so certain that there is a
bunker system there um I find it highly
doubtful that Hamas would still be in
that system underneath that hospital
considering that idea forces have moved
so close to the hospital and if they had
been there would have probably moved out
by now um and so you know it it doesn't
really change the protected status of
the hospital and it still me means that
the burden is both on Hamas and the IDF
to make sure that civilians are
protected inside the hospital yeah and
as you said interestingly the Israelis
have admitted there's no information
right now about the presence of hostages
in alifa what does this suggest about
their intelligence or is there something
perhaps more cynical going on
there well I think in this operation
more than ever the Israelis have shown
determination to strike as they see fit
um they don't double and triple check
that as they might have done in in
previous operations they certainly have
been a lot more Lex with the application
of international humanarian law in
comparison to other Western uh countries
or liberal democracies in their
application of force I'm not saying that
they they're doing it without
intelligence but what can be said is
that the intelligence might have been
very good at the beginning of the
operations on the 7th of October uh but
obviously over time they've now depleted
the target list to an extent where the
Israelis don't have the targets anymore
they don't have the intelligence anymore
to actually go after targets and they're
now guessing and the other thing that we
need to understand is that the target
the human intelligence the signal
intelligence that Israel had on the
ground um certainly doesn't apply to the
intelligence they have underground so
there is there are two different
battlefields here and that's what people
don't understand there's a battlefield
overground and there's a battlefield
underground that nobody knows about and
that is not necess neily connected to
the to the battlefield overground so uh
that makes it so difficult for
intelligence to become conclusive and it
seems that the Israelis are just doing
what they what they see fit because
nobody's holding them to account yeah
you talked about the battlefield there
and we've shown the map of where the
fighting is happening right now what is
ultimately the goal for the Israelis in
targeting alifa for example what is the
military goal Beyond
alifa well the the Absurd strateg IC
Target or strategic end game that the
Israelis are driving here is is saying
they want to completely an annihilate
hamas's infrastructure Hamas is
primarily obviously an idea resistance
is an idea it's a movement uh but even
if they wanted to annihilate the
military capabilities they would have to
kill kill every single Hamas fighter so
they're going literally house by house
whether it's a civilian house whether
it's a a dual Ed house whether it's a
hospital or any other infrastructure
they're going house by house and
clearing it and making sure that no
Fighters are in there and that is
obviously not just very disruptive but
is also somewhat counterproductive
because you're you're basically being
pulled in into firefights potentially
and you're killing more civilians which
again is something that you're trying to
avoid if you fight an Insurgency so I
think it's part of that just let's clear
everything let's try to provide evidence
and let's make sure that on the ground
at least we're seizing and holding the
ground that's the kind of IDF approach
and that's going to take obviously ages
and that means you have to clear every
single building whether they're
government buildings or hospitals
Andreas very good to get your Insight
about this Andreas from Kings College
London joining us on the newsour thank
you very much for your
time thank you